Now there's several ways that MAC addresses can be learnt.
The first aesthetic way you statically configure specific MAC addresses that are allowed or permitted
on a port any MAC address is that you don't specify or not allowed on the port.
The advantage with this method is that you have a lot of control but the disadvantage is that you have
to manually work out what the MAC addresses all of all your devices and then manually configure them.
You could also use dynamic learning where you specify how many MAC addresses are permitted on a port
and they are dynamically learnt.
So as an example you could say that only two MAC addresses are permitted on a port and the first two
MAC addresses that are learnt are permitted any subsequent MAC addresses are not permitted.
You would use this as an example to limit the MAC addresses permitted but not to which MAC addresses
are permitted so you're limiting the number of MAC addresses and not a limiting based on specific MAC
addresses.
The thing to remember about dynamic learning is that when the switch is rebooted while the port goes
down the MAC addresses learnt are removed and new MAC addresses would then be permitted when the port
comes up again.
You could also specify a aging interval to allow MAC addresses to be forgotten after a period of time.
So if you had a situation where you had a hot desk or a boardroom you may only allow a certain number
of MAC addresses on a port but those MAC addresses can change over time.
You could also do a combination of static and dynamic learning where you explicitly permit certain MAC
addresses.
So as an example you could limit the number of MAC addresses on a port to 4 but only statically configured
to MAC addresses the remaining two MAC addresses can be dynamically learned.
The static at MAC addresses do not a jot but you could allow the dynamically learnt MAC addresses to
a jot stickie learning allows you to automatically add a learnt MAC address to the running configuration
of the switch.
So rather than statically configuring MAC addresses you could allow the switch to learn MAC addresses
and then add them to the configuration when you save your running configuration to start up configuration.
Those MAC addresses will be kept in nv ram and therefore won't be lost if the switch reboots.
So there are various options.
Remember port security is an initial way to implement security.
It allows you to limit the number of mac addresses permitted on a port and it allows you to specify
which MAC addresses are permitted on a port.
You have the option of just limiting two addresses on a port but not worrying what those MAC addresses
are.
That would stop a user bringing a access point or home router to work and plugging it into the network
and allowing the friends to access the network.
Or you could be strict and only allow specific MAC addresses on a port so a user can't connect to a
director's port and therefore have access to the director's view and.